TO: Amato Pepper, Chief Executive Officer of Joyzza FROM: Joseph Brainsmart, Statistical Consultant Subject: Advertising Campaign Date: September 22, 2020 As a part of the preparation to upcoming advertising campaign for your pizza company, we need to collect some data, so that we could figure out the strengths and weaknesses in comparison to your major competitor Bigzza. It will allow us to highlight the strong points during the campaign. Also, the data gathered during this process could help your company in becoming even a better place for your current customers and potentially significant number of new ones (after the campaign). Taking into account the weak points and fixing them definitely are going to lead the company to getting more clients, more orders, and, as a result, more profit. The data could be gathered in different ways. Ideally, we should do all of them. First of all, it's a good idea to add some small survey in your mobile apps and on your site. The clients should be asked to answer that small survey in exchange for a significant discount for their next order. Time is precious, especially these days. We need to show that we value and respect our clients' time and give them something valuable in exchange. Only this way we can expect people give us meaningful, sincere and precise feedback. Also, we should conduct the same survey on the street close to your pizza place on a crowded day. We should give away some fresh and hot pizzas in exchange for an honest feedback about your company, its products and quality of its service. In order to get the right insight we need to ask the right questions. I suggest asking people to evaluate on a scale of one to five (categorical ordinal variables) following aspects for both companies: value for money, speed of service, speed of delivery, size of pizzas, amount of cheese and toppings, quality and taste of dough, and so on. We will be able to build a barchart and easily see what the strengths and weaknesses of the two companies are. Also, I think it's a good idea to ask people to highlight a few things they like about your company and its main competitor the most (categorical nominal variables). Possible answers: speed of delivery, variety of toppings, yest-free dough, vegeterian pizzas, play area for kids, nice and warm music and atmosphere inside the place, unlimited and speedy wireless access to the internet, huge variety of sauces and drinks, and so on. We'll construct a frequency bar chart and figure out the key strong points of both companies. Also, I suggest adding to the menu assorted pizzas (6 randomly added different slices). Asking people to guess the actual set of slices and giving them an extra free pizza in case they guessed it right is also a quite neat idea that might boost your sales (and it's a lot of fun, by the way :) And furthermore, I suggest making all the deliveries of pizzas within the town completely free. It might be especially important at this difficult time of global lockdown. This one could boost your sales as well. Please, let me know when you are ready to conduct the outdoors survey (I'm a huge fan of pizza :) P.S. It seems I got really hungry while composing this text, I think I should go and order some yummy pizza :) Thank you for this assigment, Michigan University, this is my favorite topic, for sure :)