TO: Isabelle Armstrong FROM: Joseph Brainsmart DATE: September 22, 2019 SUBJECT: Effects of White and Dark Chocolate on Cycling Performance As is well known, making smart decisions about nutrition is crucial and essential during training and preparing for any kinds of sport competitions, especially those ones which basically are tests of endurance. I think it might be a good start point to take a look at past studies in this field. I've found quite interesting and promising one which stidies the effects of white and dark chocolate consumption on cycling performance. So, let me give you some insight into its numbers. Nine athletes voluntered to underline baseline measurements immediately followed by 2 minute-time trial. Distance covered by participants avereged close to 1367m. Using randomised crossover design participants performed 2 further trials, two weeks apart, with either 40g of dark chocolate or white chocolate being consumed daily. The distance covered by participants on average was 1419m and 1606m, respectively. The main advantage of usage of a crossover design is that it requires a significantly smaller number of participants. There are also a few drawbacks ("order" and "carry-over" effects). But they usually could be overcome by "washing-out" periods. And also, it's not that important in our particular case, just because the actual effect of chocolate consumption does not last long. As you might have noticed taking your first glance at the means, consumption of chocolate does have some positive impact on cycling performance. But we need to take into account margin of error for each case in order to be able to talk about any significance in our results with desired confidence level. So, first of all, let's take a closer look at the means. In the baseline case it's 1367m with confidence interval of (1236, 1498). For white chocolate it equals to 1419m (1228, 1610). And, lastly, in case of dark chocolate it's 1606m (1485, 1727). As you can see, all the intervals overlap with each other. So, we can't be sure at this point that there's any significant positive effect related to chocolate comsumption. Before we continue, let me remind you what the terms "confidence interval" and "confidence level" actually mean. The confidence level of 95% for a given interval means that if we were to perform our study over and over again, we would get a bunch of intervals, 95% of which would contain the true value that we are estimatimg (using just only one small sample of that population). So, as mentioned above, we can't be sure about any effects yet. But we have some additional information (confidence intervals and p-values for the mean differences) A few words about p-values. The idea is that we make a guess (null hypothesis) that there's no significant difference between the means, and then we test this guess and get a p-value which basically equals to probability that our initial guess was true. If it's less than 0.05 (5% significance level), then our initial guess (that there's no difference) was wrong, we have less than 5% of evidence in support of that guess, and therefore we can conclude that our means are significantly different (chocolate does have an impact on cycling performance). Let's take a look at numbers again. The p-value for "baseline vs white chocolate" case equals to 0.319. It's greater than 0.05 and therefore we should accept our initial guess and conclude that there's no significant difference in the means (white chocolate has nothing to do with cycling performance in general). The p-value for "baseline vs dark chocolate" case equals to 0.001. It's less than 0.05 and therefore we have to reject our initial guess and conclude that there's significant difference (dark chocolate does have some positive effect). Finally, the p-value for "dark vs white chocolate" case equals to 0.003. It's less than 0.05 and therefore we conclude that there's significant difference (dark chocolate is better than white one in terms of cycling performance). In view of the above, I suggest including dark chocolate in athletes' diets during training and actual competition. But it might be tempting to have some chocolate while riding which might be unsafe. So, please, be careful and reasonable :)